Assignment 2: TIC-80 Micro Platform Study

	TIC-80 is described by its creators as a “fantasy computer” tiny games. This is to say, Tic-80 is an emulator for a retro-style videogame console that never actually existed. It has support for creating, playing, and sharing user made games. Tools in TIC-80 include map, sprite, and sound editors as well as an editor for code, although it’s generally easier to do the code in VS-Code or a similar program. TIC-80 was initially released by Vadim Grigoruk under the name Nesbox in 2017. It is frequently compared to another fantasy emulator called PICO-8, however, unlike PICO-8, TIC-80 is open source. TIC-80 is developed in C with SDL and LUA libraries and is supported by Windows, Linux, Android, and other popular platforms. It also supports a number of languages including Lua, Moonscript, Javascript, etc. The hardware emulated by TIC-80 limits the user to a 240x136 pixel display, 16 palette colors (although the colors in the palette for each game are not fixed), 256 8x8 color sprites, and 4 channel sound. There are other limitations as well that are generally comparable to similar retro systems
In this class, when using TIC-80 we are programming in Lua. The seven segments of a ".lua" project file are the comments, the tic function, the tiles, waves, "sfx", the tracks, and the palette. As a reference for ourselves in the future as well, comments in Lua are double hyphens, similar to the double forward slashes for JavaScript. The "tic()" or tic function is the loop that runs sixty times per second and can be understood as the "frames" in frames per second (fps). The tiles make up the maps and are made up of sprites. The waves refers to the waveforms, and relates to the sound options. The "sfx" or sound effects, refers to the kinds of sounds used in these projects. The tracks are the individual chunks of sounds themselves. To clarify, the tracks are the sounds, these blocks of sound, while the waves are the motion of the sound within those tracks, and the "sfx" are the kinds of sounds within those tracks. The palette, the part that we learned the most about in our practice, are the available colors and how they can be adjusted to have a certain range of values and comparative hues.
	Of the TIC-80 games we looked at, the one that most caught our attention was a Super Meat Boy TIC-80 demake. The original Super Meat Boy game was released in 2010 across Xbox 360, Microsoft Windows, and similar platforms. It is a single player platformer developed by Edmund MicMillen and Tommy Refenes, who refer to themselves as “Team Meat.” The demake of the game was created by developer “Never” and published by user “nequ16.” The profiles are pseudonymous but they seem to have collaborated on numerous other TIC-80 games as well. Since TIC-80 games likely are not monetized these are likely passion projects. The Super Meat Boy demake was uploaded on 11/23/2020 and updated 12/02/2020.
	The demake is quite impressive in its scope. There is support for keyboard and controllers. There are numerous sprites involved such as a controllable player sprite, a distinct sprite for each level attempt during level replays, spinning gears, temporary platforms, and several supporting characters. The game also has several different level maps, features a scrolling screen, animated backgrounds, and several menus to navigate. Text is used throughout the game as instructions on menus, level complete messages, a timer on the levels, and information on a recap screen after levels. Sound is thoroughly incorporated into the game as well. There is background music in the entirety of the game as well as death and victory sound effects. These are used to auditorily cue changes in game states as well as to help establish the tone of the game. The controls of the game are relatively straightforward. With keyboard controls, the left, right, and space keys are used during gameplay to manipulate the character. Menus, use all four arrow keys for navigation and the space bar for selection. With a controller, the left and right d-pad buttons are used for movement and X is used for jumping. Similarly to the keyboard, for menus the whole d-pad is used to navigate and the X key is used for selection.
Our favorite thing about the game is how simple yet clean it is. The main character is just a block with a little face and hardly any details, and additional characters are slightly more detailed but still very simple design-wise. The environment has far more detail than the individual character sprites, and actively change throughout the gameplay. At the end of each level, the player can see all of the attempts of the level playing out at once, so the simplicity of the character helps to detract from how overwhelming the replays are. The environment, specifically the background and obstacle sprites, are very detailed in comparison to the character sprites. The environment details include modifications based on whether the main character sprite winds up on that part of the background, namely getting stained in the red of the character. There is a lot of potential to add details to the design, such as texturizing the individual sprites more, but the simplicity of the main character sprite is much more appealing and contrasts much better with the environment. 	
	For our hack we modified Snake to work backwards and called it Ekans. In Ekans, the snake grows from the middle of the screen until it collides with the first piece of food. Then, the snake stops growing and loses a pixel for each additional food collected. The score still increases with each piece of food so the optimal strategy is delaying getting the first piece of food for as long as possible. To make the gameplay more dynamic, we also made the speed of the snake incrementally quicken as the length dropped below 10. We put videos of two runs: one victory and one failure, as well as an accidental speedrun. The “speedrun” was unintentional but quite funny, and shows the results of what would happen if food is eaten immediately upon the start of the game; an unlikely but possible run. The failure depicts a normal loss, as expected in any snake game: if the snake runs into itself, you lose the game. The victory, however, displays the greatest change in the game: your goal is to eat the food until you have no more of the snake left, rather than eat the food until there is no space left on the screen. We achieved all of our concrete goals with the mini-make as well as figuring out how to change the background. We also became very familiar with making sprites, although we did not use them in the game.

References
https://github.com/nesbox/TIC-80/wiki 
https://tic80.com/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TIC-80
https://kidscodecs.com/tic80-retro-games/
https://nesbox.itch.io/tic80
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_Meat_Boy
https://tic80.com/play?cart=1512
