Paulina Trifonova (ptrifon1) and Yael Borger (yborger1) <br />
Ardy the Aardvark <br />
The evolution of “Ardy the Aardvark” is a fascinating and somewhat ridiculous tale of visuals, none of which are pretty. The first version of this video game was “Anteater,” an arcade video game whose main gameplay is the basis for our remake. Developed by Stern Electronics and designed by Chris Oberth, this 1982 game has an orange creature at the top (assumedly the titular anteater) and the player extends the anteater’s tongue to eat ants and worms. The ants were capable of movement and would cause the player to lose a life if it touched any part of the extended tongue besides the tip, the worms could only be eaten from behind, and there is a timer based on the background changing from day to night as well as a spider that comes in once the night hits. There were too many aspects of gameplay to focus on and the visual appearance was completely neglected, as proven through a completely different color used on the game cover than in the actual game, from yellow to a bright orange. <br />
In 1983, a secondary version of the game was released for Apple II, once more by Chris Oberth but through Datamost. This edition cover had a semi-realistic creature on it and was actually named “Ardy the Aardvark,” but the in-game design appeared even more low-effort. The aardvark creature has less detail and suddenly became yellow, ironically similar to the expected design of the previous rendition, but once more does not even remotely resemble the creature on the cover. Once more, the objective remained the same: collect the food and do not let any part of the tongue get touched besides the very tip of it. Later in the same year, the Commodore 64 version of “Ardy the Aardvark” was released with Oberth as the creator and nearly identical visuals. Finally, the Atari version was released in that year, once more with Oberth as the first name listed. The biggest difference in design is that the cover of the Atari 8-bit version was based more on the arcade graphics rather than the creepy semi-realism attempted previously. This, however, did not change the appearance of Ardy in-game. There was also an Atari 2600 edition called “Aardvark” starring a startlingly similar-looking creature named Oscar, with the exact same game enemies and obstacles. Considering this is the main character of the game, the lack of consistency in the design is astonishing. <br />
	For simplicity, the game can be played on the keyboard with arrow keys and the spacebar, or with the gamepad arrows and “B” button. The main concept is to collect all of the ants, with a theoretical infinite number of levels as the map refreshes with newly generated ants in randomized locations (technically not infinite, but the maximum is the number of free spaces within the map). Rather than limit our levels as the previous editions had, we developed an endless generation method so that the levels are only limited to the number of spaces the ants can go. In theory, we could add map spaces in the future for further randomization and higher levels without too much fuss, as it would just be a randomization of which map to choose for a greater number of combinations achievable. <br />
One of the most important features of the game is the retractable tongue, something that above all else had to be a feature, and led to a lot of experimentation with the idea of “Snake.” We used some of the main concepts of “Snake” to figure out the movement, but we had to find a way to store all of the previous movements in order to retract the tongue along the path it actually took. The tables in Lua were actually incredibly helpful in this, and made it possible to incorporate the main feature. While we did not incorporate the ant movement, it would be quite simple to verify whether an ant (or any other creature for that matter) were to intercept any part of the tongue that was not the head because of the table with all of the tongue.<br />
Our remake on Tic-80 had one major limitation in comparison to the arcade edition: the screen size. The Tic-80 remake had a significantly smaller screen size, which limits our options in regards to map-design, unless we wanted to try and do some kind of forced perspective shifting to follow the tongue, but that would have the added difficulty of the retreating tongue taking significantly longer. We chose speed over the complexity. <br />
Additionally, we could have had the ants move and attack the tongue, however the game itself was considered a “collect ’em” game, and so we focused on randomized ant-placement for the collection. If we could change one particular element of our remake, it would likely be making the ants move along the screen, specifically along the y-axis they generated on. The main reason it was not added had to do with the difficulty of generating the ants randomly and consistently in order to create an “infinitely leveled” game. In order to move the ants along the y-axis for movement, they would potentially and, as the levels increase, likely overlap, which gave us immense trouble and we decided to forgo this feature as a result. The original versions did not randomly generate ants, but rather each level had ants specifically located so they would move along a platform alone, and always moved the exact same way each time that particular level was run. We preferred randomization for more unique gameplay. <br />
	The greatest achievement of our remake has to be the visual design. Our main complaint of the other version was mostly to do with the visuals as we both agreed they were overall not appealing and not consistent. We created a new version of the titular character Ardy, and tried to maintain the color scheme of the original “Anteater” game for the rest of the remake. The art has significantly improved as a result of our dedication to an appealing visual, and the colors are more cohesive throughout the maps. 
<br /><br /><br />

Additional Research Sources:<br />
Arcade - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anteater_(video_game)<br />
Apple II - https://www.mobygames.com/game/59185/ardy-the-aardvark/<br />
Commodore 64 - https://gamefaqs.gamespot.com/c64/564768-ardy-the-aardvark<br />
Atari - http://www.atarimania.com/game-atari-400-800-xl-xe-ardy-the-aardvark_319.html<br />
Atari 2600 - https://atariage.com/store/index.php?l=product_detail&p=1212 <br /><br /><br />

For your amusement, if you were to check the word count for the entire write-up without the breaks (as in everything above Line 12 or above the "Additional Research Sources" part), it is exactly 1024 words. 

